# ocik8sffl - Oracle cloud infraestructure kubernetes cluster free for life

This is a Terraform configuration to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on
[Oracle Cloud Infrastructure][oci]. It creates a few virtual machines
and uses [kubeadm] to install a Kubernetes control plane on the first
machine, and join the other machines as worker nodes.

By default, it deploys a 4-node cluster using ARM machines. Each machine
has 1 OCPU and 6 GB of RAM, which means that the cluster fits within
Oracle's (pretty generous if you ask me) [free tier][freetier].

**It is not meant to run production workloads,**
but it's great if you want to learn Kubernetes with a "real" cluster
(i.e. a cluster with multiple nodes) without breaking the bank, *and*
if you want to develop or test applications on ARM.

## Getting started

1. Create an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure account (just follow [this link][createaccount]).
2. After logging in, click on the cloud shell console.
3. Download this project and enter its folder.
4. Find the ID or OCID of your root compartment, you will need it to run terraform.
7. `terraform init`
8. `terraform apply -var="root_compartment_id=ocid1.tenancy.oc1..aaa..."`

That's it!

At the end of the `terraform apply`, a `kubeconfig` file is generated
in this directory path generated-files. To use your new cluster, you can do:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/generated-files/kubeconfig
kubectl get nodes
```

The command above should show you 4 nodes, named `node1` to `node4`.

You can also log into the VMs. At the end of the Terraform output
you should see a command that you can use to SSH into the first VM
(just copy-paste the command).

## Windows

The `kubeconfig.tf` file currently uses UNIX-specific commands which
don't work on Windows. (See #2.) I'm going to try and find a better
way to get the kubeconfig file; but meanwhile, you could try to run
it in WSL2. (Sorry!)

## Availability Domain

If you get a message like the following:

```
Error: 500-InternalError
│ ...
│ Service: Core Instance
│ Error Message: Out of host capacity.
```

...then you can try to switch to a different *availability domain*.
This can be done by changing the `availability_domain` input variable. (Thanks @uknbr for the contribution!)

## Customization

Check `variables.tf` to see tweakable parameters. You can change the number
of nodes, the size of the nodes, or switch to Intel/AMD instances if you'd
like. Keep in mind that if you switch to Intel/AMD instances, you won't get
advantage of the free tier.

## Stopping the cluster

`terraform destroy`

## Implementation details

This Terraform configuration:

- generates an OpenSSH keypair and a kubeadm token
- deploys 4 VMs using Ubuntu 20.04
- uses cloud-init to install and configure everything
- installs Docker and Kubernetes packages
- runs `kubeadm init` on the first VM
- runs `kubeadm join` on the other VMs
- installs the Weave CNI plugin
- transfers the `kubeconfig` file generated by `kubeadm`
- patches that file to use the public IP address of the machine

## Caveats

There is no cloud controller manager, which means that you cannot
create services with `type: LoadBalancer`; or rather, if you create
such services, their `EXTERNAL-IP` will remain `<pending>`.

To expose services, use `NodePort`.

Likewise, there is no ingress controller and no storage class.

(These might be added in a later iteration of this project.)

## Remarks

Oracle Cloud also has a managed Kubernetes service called
[Container Engine for Kubernetes (or OKE)][oke]. That service
doesn't have the caveats mentioned above; however, it's not part
of the free tier.

## Creditos

jpetazzo - Projeto original > https://github.com/jpetazzo/ampernetacle

[createaccount]: https://bit.ly/free-oci-dat-k8s-on-arm
[freetier]: https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free/
[kubeadm]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/
[oci]: https://www.oracle.com/cloud/compute/
[oke]: https://www.oracle.com/cloud-native/container-engine-kubernetes/
